WEEK 6
VPC USING BASTION SERVER
1. VPC with Bastion Server
VPC & Subnet Design
VPC CIDR: 10.0.0.0/16
Public Subnet (Bastion Server): 10.0.1.0/24
Private Subnet (Database Server): 10.0.2.0/24
2. Security Group Configuration (VERY IMPORTANT)
Bastion Server Security Group (Public Subnet)
Allows SSH (22) from: My IP (Database Administrator)
Database Server Security Group (Private Subnet)
Allows MySQL / Aurora (3306) from: custom 10.0.1.0/24 (Public subnet / Bastion subnet)
Allows SSH (22) from: custom Private IP of Bastion Server
Does NOT allow public access
3. Security Outcome
Database server is NOT publicly accessible
Only Bastion server can connect to DB server using SSH
External users cannot access DB directly
4. EC2 Instance Creation
Bastion Server
Subnet: Public Subnet (10.0.1.0/24)
Key pair: bastion.pem
Operating System: Ubuntu
Database Server
Subnet: Private Subnet (10.0.2.0/24)
Key pair: dbserver.pem
Operating System: Ubuntu
5. Copy DB Server Key to Bastion Server
Database server is in private subnet
Direct SSH from local system is NOT possible
DB server key must be copied to Bastion server
Command (PowerShell):
scp -i bastion.pem dbserver.pem ubuntu@<BASTION_PUBLIC_IP>:/home/ubuntu/
File is copied securely using SCP
dbserver.pem will now be available inside Bastion server
6. Connect to Bastion Server
SSH Command:
ssh -i bastion.pem ubuntu@<BASTION_PUBLIC_IP>
Verify key files:
ls
Output:
bastion.pem
dbserver.pem
7. Connect from Bastion to Database Server
SSH from Bastion:
ssh -i dbserver.pem ubuntu@10.0.2.x
Connection to DB server is successful
Database administrator can now:
Update database configurations
Install required packages-------problem occurs
Restart MySQL service
?
VPC USING NAT GATEWAY
8. In the above steps it clear there is no internet access, if we want to install or update anything in
the instances present in private subnet.
9. Network Address Translator (NAT Gateway) will solve this problem. Goto NAT Gateway in the
left side menu bar of VPC and click on create NAT gateway.
10. Give the Nat gateway name, select your VPC, scroll down and click create NAT gateway.
11. So Now create a route for accessing NATGateway. Goto Route table click on create route table
and give the route table name as bastion route , select our customized vpc and click on create
route.
12. Select the route, click on actions, goto edit subnet associations and add private subnet to this
bastion route.
13. Again goto actions and click on edit routes, attach NAT Gateway with 0.0.0.0/0, select your
NAT gateway name in the drop down menu and click on save changes.
14. Now check in the dbsever you will internet in ec2 of private subnet.
SCENARIO BASED QUESTIONS
1. Q: You have multiple private subnets in different AZs. Should you use one NAT Gateway or
multiple NAT Gateways?
A: Use multiple NAT Gateways (one per AZ) for high availability and to avoid cross-AZ charges.
2. Q: Your private subnet instances can reach the internet, but the NAT Gateway shows no traffic.
What could be the possible reasons?
A: Traffic may be routed via another path (IGW/VPC endpoint) or incorrect route table association.
3. Q: A NAT Gateway was accidentally created in a private subnet instead of a public subnet. What
problem will occur, and how would you fix it?
A: NAT won’t work due to no IGW access; fix by placing it in a public subnet with IGW route.
4. Q: An application in a private subnet needs outbound access only to specific services. How do you
restrict traffic?
A: Use Security Groups, NACLs, or firewall/proxy rules to allow only specific destinations.
5. Q: Multiple teams share one NAT Gateway and traffic conflicts occur. How to redesign?
A: Use separate NAT Gateways and route tables per team for isolation.
6. Q: SSH via Bastion works, but yum/apt update fails in private instance. Why?
A: Missing or incorrect route to NAT Gateway or DNS configuration issue.
7. Q: Private instances access internet via NAT, but SSH from Bastion fails. Why?
A: Security group or NACL rules are blocking SSH from Bastion to private instance.
8. Q: Bastion server and NAT Gateway are both in a private subnet. What is the impact?
A: Neither internet access nor external SSH will work due to lack of public exposure.
9. Q: SSH to Bastion works, but SSH from Bastion to private EC2 fails. Why?
A: Private instance security group does not allow inbound SSH from Bastion.
10. Q: Why is a Bastion server not a replacement for a NAT Gateway?
A: Bastion provides SSH access only, while NAT Gateway enables outbound internet connectivity.
CCLAB-7
WEEK-7:
step-by-step procedure for setting up an AWS Lambda function to
trigger whenever an object is uploaded to an S3 bucket and update a
DynamoDB table:
STEP-1: Create the S3 Bucket
-Search for S3 bucket in amazon console
-Click on the create bucket in the S3 bucket console
-Select general purpose
-Name the bucket as you needed
-Enable Versioning
-Click on the create bucket
STEP-2: Create a AWS DynamoDB service table
-Search for dynamodb in the search bar of amazon
console -Click on the create table
-GIve any name to the table
Eg. newtable
-Name the row as unique with type string
STEP-3: Creating the lambda function
-Search for aws lambda
-Click on the create function
-Choose Author from scratch
-Type any name in the function name input
-Choose a runtime
Eg.Python
-In permissions choose the role type
If available labrole in the existing roles
Or
Create a new role with basic lambda permissions
-click on the create function
STEP-4: Adding trigger to connect the S3 bucket and DynamoDB
-Click on the Add trigger in the created function
-Search for S3 bucket in the trigger configuration
-Select the S3 bucket
-Choose the bucket which you want to apply the trigger
-Select All object create event in the event type, Acknoledge
-click on the add
STEP: 5 Creating the deplyoment code and monitoring
-Add the code for triggering when object is uploaded
Eg
import boto3
from uuid import uuid4
deflambda_handler(event, context):
s3 = boto3.client("s3")
dynamodb = boto3.resource('dynamodb')
# Check if the 'Records' key is present in the event
if'Records'in event:
# Iterate over each record in the event
for record in event['Records']:
bucket_name = record['s3']['bucket']['name']
object_key = record['s3']['object']['key']
size = record['s3']['object'].get('size', -1)
event_name = record.get('eventName', 'Unknown') # Use get()
method to handle missing keys
event_time = record.get('eventTime', 'Unknown') # Use get() method
to handle missing keys
dynamoTable = dynamodb.Table('newtable')
dynamoTable.put_item(
Item={'unique': str(uuid4()), 'Bucket': bucket_name, 'Object':
object_key,'Size': size, 'Event': event_name, 'EventTime': event_time})
else:
# Log a message indicating that the 'Records' key is missing from the
event
print("No 'Records' key found in the event.")
Create a policy if you are getting the Iam role problem Otherwise skip
this
-Search for IAM console in AWS console
-Go to roles
-Select the Lamda function name like you gave in the labmda creation
-In permission policies click on add permissions
-Select create inline policy
-Click on the JSON in the policy editor
Write this policy code in that editor
{
"Version": "2012-10-17",
"Statement": [
{
"Effect": "Allow", "Action": "dynamodb:PutItem",
"Resource": "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-west
2:669420739378:table/newtable"
}
]
}
-Click on the next
-Give any policy name
Eg.lambda-dynamo-policy
-Click on the create policy
STEP-6 : Upload any file(s) in the S3 bucket it will triggers and shows in both
S3 bucket and the DynamoDB
-Click on the explore items in the DynamoDB
-click on the run
You’ll able to see the objects in the dynamodb which is uploaded in the S3
bucket
STEP-7: Monitoring using cloud watch
-Click on the Monitor tab in the lambda function
-Click on the view cloudwatch logs
-Click on the time lines and check the logs\
1.Q: A company wants to automatically process images whenever they
are uploaded to an S3 bucket. The system should resize the images and
store them in another bucket. Which AWS service can be used to
automatically run the code when the image is uploaded?
A:Use AWS Lambda with an Amazon S3 Event Trigger. When an image is
uploaded to the S3 bucket, the event automatically triggers the Lambda
function which processes and resizes the image and stores it in another
bucket.
2.Q: A developer created a Lambda function to store uploaded file
details into a DynamoDB table, but the function fails with a permission
denied error when writing to the database. What could be the reason
and how can it be fixed?
A:The Lambda execution role does not have permission to write to
DynamoDB.
This can be fixed by attaching an IAM policy (e.g., dynamodb:PutItem) to
the Lambda execution role.
3.Q: An application needs to run a piece of code every time a new file is
uploaded to an S3 bucket to extract metadata and store it in a database.
How would you design this using AWS Lambda?
A:
1. Configure Amazon S3 event notification for object upload.
2. Set the event trigger to AWS Lambda.
3. Lambda reads the uploaded file metadata.
4. Lambda stores the metadata into a database such as Amazon
DynamoDB.
4.Q: A Lambda function is configured with an S3 trigger, but it is not
executing when files are uploaded. What possible configuration issues
might cause this problem?
A: Possible issues include:
∙ S3 event notification not configured properly.
∙ Wrong bucket or event type selected.
∙ Lambda permission not granted to S3.
∙ File upload not matching prefix/suffix filters.
5.Q: A company wants to process only .jpg image files uploaded to an
S3 bucket using Lambda. How can the trigger be configured so that the
function runs only for those files?
A: Configure S3 event notification filters with a suffix filter .jpg so the
Lambda function triggers only for .jpg files.
6Q: A Lambda function works correctly for a few uploads but fails when
hundreds of files are uploaded simultaneously. What AWS feature helps
Lambda handle large numbers of events?
A: AWS Lambda automatic scaling (concurrency) allows Lambda to
handle large numbers of events by running multiple instances of the
function simultaneously.
7.Q: A developer wants to store the table name and bucket name
separately from the code so that they can easily change them later.
Which Lambda feature can be used to achieve this?
A: Use Lambda Environment Variables to store configuration values like
table names and bucket names.
8Q: A Lambda function executes but does not show any output in the
console, making debugging difficult. Which AWS service can be used to
view logs and troubleshoot the issue?
A: Use Amazon CloudWatch Logs to view Lambda execution logs and
debug issues.
9.Q: An organization wants a function to run every day at 10 PM to clean
temporary files stored in S3. How can Lambda be triggered
automatically at a scheduled time?
A: Use Amazon EventBridge (CloudWatch Events) with a scheduled rule
to trigger the Lambda function daily at 10 PM.
10.Q: A Lambda function processes uploaded files and stores metadata
in DynamoDB, but duplicate records appear in the table when the same
file is uploaded again. How can this issue be prevented?
A: Use a unique primary key in DynamoDB (such as file name or object
key) and apply a conditional write (PutItem with condition expression) to
prevent duplicate entries.
11.Q: A Lambda function processes files uploaded to S3, but the
processing sometimes takes more than 10 minutes. What limitation of
Lambda must be considered here?
A: AWS Lambda has a maximum execution time limit of 15 minutes. If
processing exceeds this limit, another service like AWS Step Functions,
ECS, or EC2 should be used.
12.Q: A developer wants to allow a Lambda function to read files from S3
and write records into DynamoDB. What type of AWS security
configuration must be created?
A: An IAM Role with appropriate policies must be created for the
Lambda function granting:
∙ s3:GetObject permission
∙ dynamodb:PutItem permission.
13.Q: A company wants to automatically send a notification email
whenever a file is uploaded to S3 using Lambda. Which AWS services
can be integrated to achieve this?
A: Use Amazon S3 → AWS Lambda → Amazon SNS (Simple Notification
Service) to send email notifications.
14.Q: A Lambda function is triggered by S3 uploads, but the function
keeps running multiple times for the same file. What could be the
possible cause?
A:Possible causes include:
∙ Multiple S3 event notifications configured.
∙ Lambda writing back to the same bucket and retriggering itself. ∙
Retry behavior due to failed executions.
15.Q: An organization wants to build a fully serverless application where
uploaded files are processed automatically without managing servers.
Which AWS services can be combined with Lambda to achieve this
architecture?
A:
A serverless architecture can include:
∙ Amazon S3 – file storage
∙ AWS Lambda – processing logic
∙ Amazon DynamoDB – data storage
∙ Amazon API Gateway – API access
∙ Amazon SNS/SQS – notifications or messaging
WEEK-8---SNS,SQS & S3-SNS-SQS-LAMBDA SERVICES
1) Simple Notification Sevice (SNS)
A) Create SNS Topic and Send Message to Email
We will:
1. Create an SNS Topic
2. Create an Email Subscription
3. Confirm the subscription
4. Publish a test message
Step 1: Create SNS Topic
1. Login to AWS Console
2. In search bar → Type SNS
3. Open Amazon SNS (Simple Notification Service)
4. In left panel → Click Topics
5. Click Create topic
Configure:
 Type → Select Standard
 Name → MyEmailTopic
 Leave other settings default (unless required)
6. Click Create topic
Step 2: Create Email Subscription
1. Open your created topic
2. Go to Subscriptions tab
3. Click Create subscription
Configure:
 Protocol → Select Email
 Endpoint → Enter your email address
4. Click Create subscription
Step 3: Confirm Subscription
 Go to your email inbox
 You will receive a mail from Amazon SNS
 Click Confirm subscription
Now your email is successfully subscribed 🎉
Step 4: Publish Test Message
1. Open your SNS topic
2. Click Publish message
3. Add:
o Subject → Test Mail
o Message body → Hello this is SNS test
4. Click Publish message
You will receive email notification.
B) Trigger Email When S3 Object is Uploaded (S3 → SNS → Email)
Now we extend this setup:
Flow:
S3 Bucket → Event Notification → SNS Topic → Email
Step 1: Create S3 Bucket
1. Search → S3
2. Click Create bucket
Configure:
 Bucket name → my-upload-bucket-2026
 Choose Region (Important: Same region as SNS topic)
 Keep default settings (unless specific requirement)
3. Click Create bucket
Step 2: Create SNS Topic (If not already created)
You can reuse the topic from Part A
OR create new topic like:
 Topic name → S3UploadNotification
Make sure email subscription is confirmed.
Step 3: Allow S3 to Publish to SNS (Access Policy)
1. Open SNS Topic
2. Go to Access policy
3. Click Edit
Add permission for S3 to publish.
If using Basic Editor:
Access Policy that needs to be configured on SNS:
a) replace SNS topic ARN
b) Replace s3 bucket ARN
c) Replace account
{
"Version": "2012-10-17",
"Id": "example-ID",
"Statement": [
{
"Sid": "Example SNS topic policy",
"Effect": "Allow",
"Principal": {
"Service": "s3.amazonaws.com"
},
"Action": [
"SNS:Publish"
],
"Resource": "SNS topic ARN",
"Condition": {
"ArnLike": {
"aws:SourceArn": "s3 bucket ARN"
},
"StringEquals": {
"aws:SourceAccount": "account id"
}
}
}
]
}
(Modern AWS console often auto-generates this when configuring from S3)
Step 4: Configure S3 Event Notification
1. Open your S3 bucket
2. Go to Properties
3. Scroll to Event notifications
4. Click Create event notification
Configure:
 Event name → UploadNotification
 Event types → Select:
o All object create events
 Destination:
o Select SNS topic
o Choose your topic (S3UploadNotification)
5. Click Save changes
Step 5: Test It
1. Upload any file into the S3 bucket
2. After upload completes:
o S3 triggers event
o SNS receives publish request
o SNS sends email
You will receive mail about object upload.
Simple Queue Service (SQS)
2) Create SQS Queue and Send Message
We will:
1. Create an SQS Queue
2. Send a message to the Queue
3. Receive the message from the Queue
Step 1: Create SQS Queue
1. Login to AWS Console
2. In the search bar → Type SQS
3. Open Amazon Simple Queue Service
4. In the dashboard → Click Create queue
Configure:
• Type → Select Standard
• Name → MyQueue
• Leave other settings as default
5. Click Create queue
Your SQS queue is now created successfully.
Step 2: Send Message to Queue
1. Open the MyQueue queue
2. Click Send and receive messages
3. In the Message body, type:
Hello this is SQS test message
4. Click Send message
Your message is now stored in the queue.
Step 3: Receive Message from Queue
1. In the same page (Send and receive messages)
2. Click Poll for messages
You will see the message displayed.
Example output:
Hello this is SQS test message
3. After processing, click Delete message (optional)
Result:
 SQS queue created
 Message sent successfully
 Message received from queue
3) S3 Bucket Event → SNS → SQS → Lambda Processing
S3 bucket event (like file upload) triggers SNS, which sends the notification to SQS. Then
Lambda acts as the consumer and processes the message.
Services used:
• Amazon S3
• Amazon Simple Notification Service
• Amazon Simple Queue Service
• AWS Lambda
S3 → SNS → SQS → Lambda Architecture
S3 Bucket (File Upload)
↓
SNS Topic
↓
SQS Queue
↓
Lambda Function (Consumer)
When a file is uploaded, S3 sends an event notification to SNS, which forwards the message
to SQS. The Lambda function then reads and processes the message from SQS.
Step 1: Create S3 Bucket
1. Login to AWS Console
2. Search S3
3. Open Amazon S3
4. Click Create bucket
Configure:
• Bucket name → mys3eventbucket123 (must be unique)
• Region → choose your region
Leave other settings default.
5. Click Create bucket
Step 2: Create SNS Topic
1. Search SNS in AWS Console
2. Open Amazon SNS
3. Click Topics → Create topic
Configure:
• Type → Standard
• Name → MyS3SNSTopic
4. Click Create topic
Copy the SNS Topic ARN.
Step 3: Create SQS Queue
1. Search SQS in AWS Console
2. Open Amazon SQS
3. Click Create queue
Configure:
• Type → Standard
• Name → MyS3Queue
4. Click Create queue
Copy the Queue ARN.
Step 4: Subscribe SQS to SNS
1. Open MyS3SNSTopic
2. Click Create subscription
Configure:
• Protocol → Amazon SQS
• Endpoint → Select MyS3Queue
3. Click Create subscription
Step 5: Add Access Policy to SQS
Open MyS3Queue → Access Policy → Edit
Replace:
• SQS ARN
• SNS ARN
{
"Statement": [
{
"Effect": "Allow",
"Principal": {
"Service": "sns.amazonaws.com"
},
"Action": "sqs:SendMessage",
"Resource": "SQS ARN",
"Condition": {
"ArnEquals": {
"aws:SourceArn": "SNS ARN"
}
}
}
]
}
Click Save.
Step 6: Add Access Policy to SNS
Open SNS Topic → Edit access policy
Replace:
• SNS topic ARN
• S3 bucket ARN
• Account ID
{
"Version": "2012-10-17",
"Id": "example-ID",
"Statement": [
{
"Sid": "Example SNS topic policy",
"Effect": "Allow",
"Principal": {
"Service": "s3.amazonaws.com"
},
"Action": [
"SNS:Publish"
],
"Resource": "SNS topic ARN",
"Condition": {
"ArnLike": {
"aws:SourceArn": "S3 bucket ARN"
},
"StringEquals": {
"aws:SourceAccount": "Account ID"
}
}
}
]
}
Save the policy.
Step 7: Configure S3 Event Notification
1. Open S3 Bucket (mys3eventbucket123)
2. Go to Properties
3. Scroll to Event notifications
Click Create event notification
Configure:
• Event name → S3UploadEvent
• Event type → All object create events
Destination:
• SNS Topic → MyS3SNSTopic
Click Save changes.
Step 8: Test the Architecture
1. Open the S3 bucket
2. Click Upload file
3. Upload any file (example: test.txt)
Now:
File Upload → S3
↓
Notification → SNS
↓
Message → SQS
Step 9: Verify Message in SQS
1. Open MyS3Queue
2. Click Send and receive messages
3. Click Poll for messages
You will see the S3 event notification message.
Step 10: Configure Lambda as Consumer
Now configure Lambda to automatically process messages from SQS.
Create Lambda Function
1. Search Lambda in AWS Console
2. Open AWS Lambda
3. Click Create Function
Configure:
• Author from scratch
• Function name → SQSConsumerFunction
• Runtime → Python 3.x
Click Create function
Add SQS Trigger
1. Open SQSConsumerFunction
2. Click Add Trigger
3. Select SQS
4. Choose MyS3Queue
Click Add
Now Lambda will automatically read messages from SQS.
Lambda Code
Replace code with:
def lambda_handler(event, context):
for record in event['Records']:
print("Message received from SQS:")
print(record['body'])
return {
'statusCode': 200,
'body': 'Message processed successfully'
}
Click Deploy.
Final Architecture
User uploads file
↓
Amazon S3
↓
SNS Topic
↓
SQS Queue
↓
Lambda Function (Consumer)
↓
Processing / Logs / Database
Result
When a file is uploaded to S3:
1. S3 sends a notification to SNS
2. SNS forwards the message to SQS
3. SQS stores the message
4. Lambda automatically reads and processes the message
This creates a serverless event-driven architecture commonly used in real cloud
applications.
Scenario Based Questions (SNS, SQS, S3-SNS-SQS-Lambda)
Q1. A company wants to send notifications to multiple users whenever an important system
event occurs. The same message must be delivered to email, SMS, and application
subscribers simultaneously. Which AWS service can be used to implement this publish-
subscribe messaging system?
Ans. Amazon SNS
Q2. A developer created an SNS topic and added an email subscription, but the subscriber is
not receiving any notifications. What could be the possible reason for this issue?
Ans. The email subscription is not confirmed by the recipient.
Q3. An organization wants to automatically notify administrators via email whenever a new
file is uploaded to an S3 bucket. How can this be implemented using AWS services?
Ans. Configure S3 event notifications to trigger Amazon SNS and subscribe administrators
via email.
Q4. A developer configured an S3 bucket to trigger an SNS notification on file upload, but
the message is not reaching the SNS topic. What configuration or permission issue might
cause this problem?
Ans. Missing permissions in the SNS topic policy to allow S3 to publish messages.
Q5. A company wants to store incoming messages temporarily so that applications can
process them later without losing data even if the system is busy. Which AWS messaging
service should be used for this requirement?
Ans. Amazon SQS
Q6. A developer sends messages to an SQS queue, but when checking the queue no messages
appear. What possible reasons could cause this issue?
Ans. Messages may have already been consumed, sent to the wrong queue, or are delayed
due to delay settings.
Q7. A company wants to process thousands of messages coming from different applications
without overloading the processing system. How does Amazon SQS help in handling this
situation?
Ans. Amazon SQS buffers messages and enables asynchronous processing, allowing systems
to scale and avoid overload.
Q8. A developer wants to ensure that messages are processed automatically from an SQS
queue without manually polling the queue. Which AWS service can be configured to
automatically consume messages from SQS?
Ans. AWS Lambda
Q9. An application uploads files to S3, and the company wants the upload event to trigger a
workflow that sends notifications and processes the message later. How can this be designed
using S3, SNS, SQS, and Lambda?
Ans. S3 triggers Amazon SNS, SNS sends messages to Amazon SQS, and AWS Lambda
processes messages from SQS.
Q10. A developer configured an SNS topic to send messages to an SQS queue, but the queue
is not receiving any messages. What policy configuration might be missing?
Ans. Missing SQS queue policy allowing SNS to send messages to the queue.
Q11. A company wants to decouple its application components so that failures in one
component do not affect others. Which AWS service combination can be used to implement
loosely coupled communication?
Ans. Amazon SNS and Amazon SQS
Q12. A Lambda function is configured to process messages from an SQS queue, but the
function is not being triggered. What possible configuration issue might cause this problem?
Ans. Missing event source mapping between SQS and AWS Lambda or insufficient
permissions.
Q13. An organization wants to ensure that uploaded files in S3 trigger notifications, store
messages reliably, and process them asynchronously. Which serverless architecture using
AWS services can achieve this?
Ans. S3 → Amazon SNS → Amazon SQS → AWS Lambda
Q14. A developer wants to monitor the processing of messages handled by a Lambda
function triggered by SQS. Which AWS service can be used to view logs and troubleshoot
the function execution?
Ans. Amazon CloudWatch
Q15. A company wants to build a fully serverless event-driven system where file uploads
automatically trigger notifications and background processing without managing servers.
Which AWS services can be combined to build this architecture?
Ans. Amazon S3, Amazon SNS, Amazon SQS, and AWS Lambda
Q16. A company wants to send a notification to multiple applications whenever a new order
is placed in their system. Each application should receive the same message and process it
independently. Which AWS service can be used to implement this publish-subscribe
communication model?
Ans. Amazon SNS
Q17. A developer configured an SNS topic and connected it to an SQS queue, but the
messages published to SNS are not appearing in the queue. What configuration or permission
might be missing in this setup?
Ans. Missing SQS access policy allowing SNS topic to send messages.
Q18. An application generates a large number of events, and the development team wants to
ensure that these events are stored safely until they are processed by another service. Which
AWS service can be used to reliably store and deliver these messages?
Ans. Amazon SQS
Q19. A company uploads files to an S3 bucket and wants to process these files using
Lambda, but only after the messages is safely stored to avoid data loss during high traffic.
Which AWS architecture using SNS and SQS can help achieve this requirement?
Ans. S3 → Amazon SNS → Amazon SQS → AWS Lambda
Q20. A developer notices that messages remain in an SQS queue even after being processed
by a Lambda function. What configuration or step might be missing to ensure messages are
removed after processing?
Ans. The Lambda function is not successfully completing execution or not deleting messages
(visibility timeout or error handling issue).
WEEK-9- Implementation of Elastic Load Balancer with Auto Scaling using AWS EC2
Instances.
Elastic Load Balancer (ALB)
Step 1: Launch Two EC2 Instances
1.1 Launch EC2 Instance #1
1. Go to AWS EC2 Console → Launch Instance.
2. Name: webserver-1
3. Choose an AMI (Amazon Linux 2).
4. Select Instance Type (e.g., t2.micro).
5. Add Storage (default is fine).
6. Configure Security Group:
o Allow SSH (22) from your IP
o Allow HTTP (80) from anywhere (0.0.0.0/0)
7. Launch → Select/Create Key Pair → Launch.
Run these commands after connecting VM
yum update -y
yum install httpd -y
systemctl start httpd
systemctl enable httpd
echo "This is Server 1" > /var/www/html/index.html
✅ Now you create second EC2 instances running Apache, with message This is Servier 2 each serving a
simple web page.
Repeat it for second instance
yum update -y
yum install httpd -y
systemctl start httpd
systemctl enable httpd
echo "This is Server 2" > /var/www/html/index.html
Step 2: Create a Load Balancer
AWS provides Elastic Load Balancer (ELB). We will create an Application Load Balancer (ALB).
2.1 Configure Security Group for Load Balancer
 Go to EC2 → Security Groups → Create Security Group
o Name: lb-sg
o Allow HTTP (80) from anywhere
o Optional: HTTPS (443) if using SSL
2.2 Create the Load Balancer
1. Go to EC2 → Load Balancers → Create Load Balancer → Application Load Balancer
2. Basic Configuration:
o Name: my-alb
o Scheme: Internet-facing
o IP address type: IPv4
3. Listeners:
o Default: HTTP (80)
2.3 Configure Availability Zones
 Select the deafault VPC where your EC2 instances exist
 Select two /all subnets (one for each instance if possible)
2.4 Configure Security Groups
 Choose the lb-sg security group created earlier
2.5 Configure Target Groups
1. Create a new target group:
o Name: web-servers-tg
o Target type: Instance
o Protocol: HTTP
o Port: 80
o Health checks: / (default)
2. Register Targets:
o Select EC2 INSTANCES HERE --- webserver-1 and webserver-2
o Click Include as pending → Register
2.6 Review and Create
 Review all settings → Click Create Load Balancer
 AWS will take a few minutes to provision the ALB
Step 3: Verify Load Balancer
1. 2. 3. Go to Load Balancers → Select ALB → Description → DNS name
Copy the DNS name (something like my-alb-123456.us-east-1.elb.amazonaws.com)
Paste it in a browser → You should see either WebServer-1 or WebServer-2 page.
o Refresh multiple times → Load balancer distributes traffic between the two instances
Step 4: Optional – Test Health Checks
 Go to Target Groups → web-servers-tg → Targets
 Ensure Status of both instances is healthy
If a server is unhealthy, check the bootstrapping script or security group rules.
Step-by-Step: Auto Scaling Group with Load Balancer
Step 1: Create an AMI from Existing EC2 Instance
1. Go to EC2 Console → Instances
2. Select the EC2 instance you already configured with bootstrapping
3. Click Actions → Image and Templates → Create Image
4. Provide Image Name: e.g., my-webserver-AMI
5. Optional: Add description
6. Click Create Image
7. Wait for the AMI to become available (status: available in AMIs section)
✅ This AMI will be used for launching new instances automatically in ASG.
Step 2: Create a Launch Template
1. Go to EC2 → instances->Launch Templates → Create Launch Template
2. Launch Template Name: my-launch-template
3. AMI: Select the AMI created in Step 1 (my-webserver-AMI)
4. Instance Type: t2.micro (or your choice)
5. Key Pair: Select your existing key pair
6. Security Groups: Select the Load Balancer Security Group (allow HTTP 80)
7. User Data: Optional (already baked into AMI)
8. Click Create Launch Template
✅ Launch Template is ready for Auto Scaling.
Step 3: Create Auto Scaling Group (ASG)
1. Go to EC2 → Auto Scaling Groups → Create Auto Scaling Group
2. Name: webserver-asg
3. Launch Template: Select my-launch-template
4. Template Version: Select Version 1
5. Click Next
Step 3.1: Network Settings
1. VPC: Default VPC (or your existing VPC)
2. Availability Zones (AZs): Select all subnets (for high availability)
3. Load Balancer: Enable Attach to an existing load balancer
o Select your existing Load Balancer
4. Health Check: HTTP
o Set Health Check Grace Period: 300 seconds
5. Click Next
Step 3.2: Configure Group Size
1. Desired Capacity: 2 (initial instances)
2. Minimum Capacity: 1
3. Maximum Capacity: 4
4. Click Next
Step 3.3: Review and Create ASG
1. Review all settings
2. Click Create Auto Scaling Group
✅ Auto Scaling Group is now ready and attached to your Load Balancer.
Step 4: Verify Load Balancer and Auto Scaling
1. Go to Load Balancers → Select your Load Balancer
2. Click Instances → Target Group → Registered Targets
o You will see 2 healthy instances initially
3. Check Auto Scaling Group → Instances
o You may see up to 4 instances if scaling triggers
4. Test auto recovery:
o Terminate one of the instances
o After a few seconds, ASG will launch a new instance automatically
o Traffic will automatically be distributed by the Load Balancer
Step 5: Test the Load Balancer
1. 2. 3. Copy the Load Balancer DNS Name from ALB
Open in a browser → You should see your web page from one of the instances
Refresh multiple times → traffic alternates between instances
✅ This confirms Auto Scaling + Load Balancer is working correctly.
Summary of Flow
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. Create AMI → snapshot of working EC2
Create Launch Template → using AMI, security group
Create Auto Scaling Group → attach Launch Template, set min/desired/max, attach Load Balancer
Verify instances → ASG launches/replaces instances automatically
Test Load Balancer → distributes traffic between all active instances
Scenario Based Questions (ELB & Auto Scaling)
1. A company hosts a web application on two EC2 instances, but sometimes one server becomes
overloaded while the other remains idle.
Which AWS service can distribute incoming traffic evenly across both servers?
A) Elastic Load Balancer
2. A developer created multiple EC2 instances for a web application but wants users to access
the application using a single entry point instead of multiple server IP addresses.
Which AWS service can solve this problem?
A) Elastic Load Balancer
3. An organization notices that during peak hours their application receives heavy traffic and
servers become slow. During non-peak hours, many servers remain unused.
Which AWS feature can automatically increase or decrease the number of servers based on
demand?
A) Auto Scaling
4. A company deployed a load balancer but users are still getting errors because traffic is being
sent to an unhealthy server.
Which load balancer feature helps detect and stop sending traffic to failed servers?
A) Health Checks
5. A developer wants to automatically launch additional EC2 instances when CPU utilization
exceeds 70%.
Which AWS service configuration should be used to implement this requirement?
A) Auto Scaling Policy (Target Tracking / Scaling Policy)
6. An application receives traffic from users worldwide, and the company wants to ensure that
requests are distributed across multiple EC2 instances for high availability.
How can Elastic Load Balancer help in this architecture?
A) By distributing traffic across multiple EC2 instances in multiple Availability Zones
7. A developer configured an Auto Scaling Group, but new instances are not launching even
when traffic increases.
What configuration might be missing or incorrect?
A) Scaling Policy or CloudWatch Alarm not configured
8. A company wants to maintain a minimum of two running servers at all times, but
automatically add more servers when traffic increases.
Which Auto Scaling configuration parameters should be defined?
A) Minimum Capacity, Desired Capacity, Maximum Capacity
9. A web application running on EC2 instances behind a load balancer suddenly crashes when
traffic spikes.
How can combining Elastic Load Balancer with Auto Scaling improve system reliability?
A) ELB distributes traffic and Auto Scaling adds/removes instances automatically
10. A developer created an Auto Scaling Group but forgot to attach it to a load balancer.
What potential problem might occur in handling user requests?
A) Traffic will not be distributed and users may not reach new instances
11. A company wants to replace unhealthy EC2 instances automatically to maintain application
availability.
Which AWS feature can automatically detect and replace failed instances?
A) Auto Scaling (Health Check Replacement)
12. A developer wants to monitor the performance of EC2 instances and trigger scaling actions
based on metrics such as CPU usage or network traffic.
Which AWS service can provide these monitoring metrics?
A) Amazon CloudWatch
13. A startup expects sudden spikes in website traffic during a promotional event and wants the
infrastructure to automatically handle the load.
How can Auto Scaling help manage this situation?
A) Automatically scales out during high traffic and scales in when traffic decreases
14. A developer wants to ensure that incoming user requests are routed to servers based on HTTP
or HTTPS protocols.
Which type of AWS load balancer should be used?
A) Application Load Balancer
WEEK-10--Elasticbeanstalk
Prerequisites
HERE
 A web application ready (e.g., ROOT.war, .zip, or code)----YOU CAN YOURS MAVEN PROJECT
Steps to Create Elastic Beanstalk Application
Step 1: Open Elastic Beanstalk
1. Login to AWS Console
2. Under Compute section ->Search for Elastic Beanstalk
3. Click Create Application
Step 2: Create Application
1. Enter Application Name (e.g., MyApp)
2. Add description (optional)
3. Click Create
Step 3: Create Environment
1. Click Create Environment
2. Choose:
3. Click Select
o Web Server Environment (for web apps)
Step 4: Configure Environment
1. Enter Environment Name
2. Choose Platform:
o Java (for .war)
o Node.js / Python / PHP / etc.
3. Under Application Code:
o Select Upload your code
o Upload your .war or .zip file
Step 5: Configure Service Access
1. Service Role → Select existing -LabRole
2. EC2 Key Pair → Optional (for SSH)
3. EC2 Instance Profile → select (e.g., LabInstanceProfile)
Step 6: Configure Network
1. Select VPC (default is fine)
2. Select Subnets
3. Enable Public IP
Step 7: Instance & Scaling Setup
1. Choose Instance type (e.g., t2.micro – free tier)
2. Set:
3. o Min instances: 1
o Max instances: 2 (or more)
Load Balancer → Enabled (optional but recommended)
Step 8: Review & Create
1. Click Review
2. Click Create
Deployment Process
 AWS automatically creates:
o EC2 instances
o Load Balancer
o Auto Scaling Group
o Security Groups
Access Your Application
 After deployment:
o You will get a URL (domain link)
o Open it in browser → Your app will run

Updating Application
1. Go to your environment
2. Click Upload and Deploy
3. Upload new version
4.
SCENARIO BASED QUESTIONS
Scenario-Based Questions
Scenario 1: Application Not Loading
Q1. What could be the possible reasons?
● Application crashed or not started
● Wrong port or missing entry file
Q2. Could deployment or configuration be incorrect?
Yes. Wrong platform or incorrect packaging can prevent the app from running.
Q3. How would you troubleshoot this problem?
Check Events for failure messages and logs like eb-engine.log to identify startup errors.
Scenario 2: Incorrect Application Structure
Q1. How does application structure affect deployment?
Elastic Beanstalk requires files at the root level; incorrect structure prevents detection of the app.
Q2. What happens if files are inside an extra folder?
EB cannot find the entry file, causing deployment failure or blank output.
Q3. How would you fix the structure issue?
Move required files (e.g., .war, app.js) to the root and repackage the ZIP correctly.
Scenario 3: Wrong Platform Selection
Q1. Why is platform selection important?
Platform defines runtime (Java, Node, Python) and how the app is executed.
Q2. What errors might occur?
App won’t start or shows runtime errors due to mismatch.
Q3. How can you correct the platform?
Recreate the environment with the correct platform (e.g., Tomcat for .war).
Scenario 4: Environment Health Warning
Q1. Possible reasons for warning?
● Failed health checks
● High response time or errors
Q2. Which sections to check first?
Events, Logs, and Metrics.
Q3. How to resolve?
Fix health check URL, reduce errors, and optimize performance.
Scenario 5: Application Errors in Logs
Q1. What do such errors indicate?
The application is failing during execution.
Q2. Could misconfiguration cause this?
Yes, missing environment variables or resources can break the app.
Q3. How to analyze logs?
Identify the first error, read stack trace, and trace the failing component.
Scenario 6: Deployment Failure
Q1. What could be wrong with the package?
Missing entry file or incorrect ZIP structure.
Q2. Which logs to check?
eb-engine.log and Events tab.
Q3. How do packaging errors affect deployment?
EB cannot start the app, leading to complete failure.
Scenario 7: Works Locally but Not on Cloud
Q1. What environment differences cause this?
OS differences, ports, or file paths.
Q2. Could dependencies/config be responsible?
Yes, missing dependencies or incorrect configs.
Q3. How to debug?
Compare local vs cloud setup and analyze logs.
Scenario 8: Blank Output
Q1. What causes no output?
Routes not defined or frontend not loading.
Q2. Could runtime/config issues be responsible?
Yes, incorrect responses or missing files.
Q3. How do logs help?
Logs show request handling and response errors.
Scenario 9: Application URL Not Accessible
Q1. Could environment still be launching?
Yes, during initialization phase.
Q2. What status indicators to check?
Environment status and health (Pending, Green).
Q3. How can Events help?
They show deployment progress and failures.
Scenario 10: Resource Management Issue
Q1. Cost implications?
Charges continue for running resources.
Q2. Which services run in background?
EC2, Load Balancer, Auto Scaling.
Q3. How to terminate resources?
Delete environment and verify all services are stopped.
Scenario 11: High Traffic Handling
Q1. How does EB handle scaling?
Using Auto Scaling Groups.
Q2. What configurations are needed?
Scaling policies and load balancer.
Q3. What if scaling is not configured?
App slows down or crashes under load.
Scenario 12: Application Update Not Reflected
Q1. Could deployment issues be the reason?
Yes, old version may still be active.
Q2. How can caching affect output?
Browser or CDN may serve old content.
Q3. How to ensure latest version?
Redeploy properly and clear cache.
WEEK 11—Amazon LEX
Step 1: Open Amazon Lex
1. Login to AWS Console
2. Search Amazon Lex
3. Click Create bot
Step 2: Create Bot
1. Choose:
o Create a blank bot
2. Enter:
o Bot name: HotelBookingBot
3. IAM role → Create new role
4. Remaining defaultnext
5. Language: English
6. Voice (optional)
7. Click Done
Step 3: Create Intent
1. Go to Intents
2. Name: BookHotel
3. Click Create
Step 4: Add Sample Utterances
Add user sentences (how user talks):
I want to book a hotel
Book a room
Reserve hotel
I need a room
These are Utterances
Step 5: Create Slots (User Inputs)
Slots collect user information.
Add Slot
1. Click Add slot
2. Fill:
o Slot name: age
o Slot type: AMAZON.Number
o Prompt: Which city do you want?
Mark as Required
Add IF Conditions (Conditional Logic)
Used to control flow based on slot values
Example Condition:
If {age} < 18
Steps:
1. Go to Intent → Slots -> under Advance options
2. Scroll to Slot capture: success response ->Conditional branching
3. Click Add condition
Example:
Condition:
If {age} < 18
Response:
Your not eligible for hoot booking?
Step 6: Create Slots (User Inputs)
Slots collect user information.
Add Slot
3. Click Add slot
4. Fill:
o Slot name: location
o Slot type: AMAZON.City
o Prompt: Which city do you want?
5. Mark as Required
Repeat for other slots.
1. Click Add slot
2. Fill details:
o Slot name: checkin
o Slot type: AMAZON.Date
o Prompt:
"What is your check-in date?"
3. Mark as Required
(Optional but recommended)
o Add Retry prompt:
"Please provide a valid date (e.g., 2026-03-25)"
4. Click Save
Slot 7: Number of Nights (nights)
Steps:
1. Click Add slot again
2. Fill details:
o Slot name: nights
o Slot type: AMAZON.Number
o Prompt:
"How many nights will you stay?"
3. Mark as Required
4. Click Save
Step 7: Create Custom Slot Type
Save intent
Click on Back to intents
If you want custom values:
1. Go to Slot Types
2. Click Add slot type ->add blank slot type
3. Name: RoomType
Add values:
Single
Double
Suite
Save slot type
Now use this in slot: go back to intent
 Slot name: RoomType
 Slot type: RoomType
Step 9: Add Response Cards (Card Groups)
Used for buttons (quick replies)
Steps:
1. 2. Go to slot prompts -> more prompt options
Click Add -> add card groups
Example:
Card Title: Select Room Type
click on add Buttons:
 Single → "Single"
 Double → "Double"
 Suite → "Suite"
Step 10: Configure Responses
Initial Response:
Welcome to Hotel Booking! What is your name?
Confirmation:
Do you want to confirm booking in {location} for {nights} nights?
Step 11: Build & Test
1. Click Build
2. Use Test chatbot panel
3. Try:
Book a hotel
Sample output
User: Book a hotel
Bot: What is your age?
User: 25
Bot: Which city do you want?
User: Hyderabad
Bot: Check-in date?
User: Tomorrow
Bot: Number of nights?
User: 2
Bot: Select room type
User: Double
Bot: Do you want to confirm booking in Hyderabad for 2 nights?
User: Yes
Bot: Booking confirmed.
SCENARIO BASED QUESTIONS
Scenario 1: Bot Not Responding
You created a chatbot, but when you test it, the bot does not respond to user input.
 What could be the possible reason for no response?
 Did you build and publish the bot correctly?
 How would you troubleshoot this issue?
Bot may not respond if it is not built/published, has no matching intent, or configuration errors—
troubleshoot by building, checking intents, and logs in Amazon CloudWatch.
Scenario 2: Incorrect Intent Matching
A user types a valid query, but the chatbot responds with the wrong intent.
 What could cause incorrect intent recognition?
 How do utterances affect intent matching?
 How can you improve accuracy?
Wrong intent occurs due to poor or overlapping utterances, so improve accuracy by adding
diverse and clear training phrases in Amazon Lex.
Scenario 3: Missing Slot Values
The chatbot asks for user input, but fails to capture required slot values.
 What is a slot in Amazon Lex?
 Why might slot values not be captured properly?
 How would you fix slot configuration issues?
A slot is a user input variable, and values may fail due to incorrect configuration, so fix by marking
slots required and using proper slot types.
Scenario 4: Fulfillment Not Working
The bot collects all user inputs but does not perform the expected action.
 What is fulfillment in Amazon Lex?
 Could Lambda integration be misconfigured?
 How would you verify the backend processing?
Fulfillment is the backend action after data collection, and it may fail if AWS Lambda is
misconfigured, so verify integration and logs.
Scenario 5: Bot Not Accessible
You created the bot successfully, but users are unable to access it.
 Did you deploy or publish the bot?
 Could permissions or channel integration be missing?
 How would you make the bot accessible to users?
The bot may not be accessible if not published or lacks permissions, so deploy it and configure alias
and access settings.
Scenario 6: Wrong Language Understanding
The chatbot fails to understand user queries written in slightly different formats.
 How does Amazon Lex process natural language?
 Why is training with multiple utterances important?
 How can you improve NLP performance?
Lex uses NLP to map input to intent, and accuracy improves by training with multiple varied
utterances.
Scenario 7: Versioning Issue
You updated the bot, but users still experience the old behavior.
 Did you create a new version of the bot?
 Why is alias configuration important?
 How do you ensure users access the latest version?
Users see old behavior if alias points to an old version, so update alias to the latest bot version.
Scenario 8: Lambda Permission Error
The chatbot is connected to a Lambda function, but it fails during execution.
 What type of permission error might occur?
 How are IAM roles used in this integration?
 How would you fix the permission issue?
Permission errors occur when IAM roles lack access, so grant required permissions using AWS
Identity and Access Management.
Scenario 9: Bot Gives Default Response
The chatbot always gives a fallback/default response instead of proper answers.
 What is a fallback intent?
 Why does the bot fail to match user input?
 How can you improve intent recognition?
Fallback intent triggers when no intent matches, so improve recognition by adding better utterances.
Scenario 10: Multi-turn Conversation Issue
The chatbot fails to continue conversation properly after asking follow-up questions.
 What is dialog management in Amazon Lex?
 How are slots used in multi-turn conversations?
 How can conversation flow be improved?
Dialog management controls conversation flow, and issues occur if slots are not properly configured
or sequenced.
Scenario 11: Integration with Web Application
A company wants to integrate the chatbot into their website.
 How can Amazon Lex be integrated with web applications?
 What services or APIs are required?
 What challenges might occur during integration?
 Amazon Lex can be integrated using APIs and SDKs, but challenges include
authentication and UI handling.
Scenario 12: Performance Issue
The chatbot responds slowly when many users interact simultaneously.
 What could cause performance delays?
 How can scalability be handled in Amazon Lex?
 What AWS services can support high traffic handling?
Delays occur due to high load or slow backend, and scalability is handled using services like AWS
Lambda and API Gateway.
WEEK-12
IAM
1. Administrative Setup (Root User)
Step 1: Log in to the AWS Management Console as the Root User.
Step 2: Search for IAM under the "Security, Identity, & Compliance" category.
Step 3: Navigate to Users and click Create user.
Step 4: User Details: Enter a name (e.g., S3_Specialist). Check the box for "Provide user access to the
AWS Management Console." – custom password.
Step 5: Set Permissions: Select "Attach policies directly." Search for and select
AmazonS3FullAccess.
Step 6: Review & Create: Complete the wizard. On the final page, click
Download .csv file.
Now you see CC-LAB user created
Step 7: Copy your 12-digit Account ID (found in the
top-right dropdown or the .csv) and Sign Out.
Step 8: Use the Sign-in URL from the .csv (or go to the AWS sign-in page and select
IAM User).
Step 9: Enter the Account ID, then the IAM Username and Password from the .csv.
Test 1 (Failure): Navigate to EC2. Try to view instances. You will see "API Error" or "Access Denied."
This proves the user is restricted.
Test 2 (Success): Navigate to S3. Create a new bucket. It will work perfectly because of the attached
policy.
Part B: CLI Access (Programmatic Access)
Objective: Access AWS resources from a standalone system (CMD/Terminal) using security keys.
1. Credential Generation
Step 1: While logged in as an Admin/Root, go to IAM > Users and click on your user.
Step 2: Go to the Security credentials tab. Scroll to Access keys and click Create access key.
Step 3: Select Command Line Interface (CLI). Acknowledge the warning
and click Next.
Step 4: Download the .csv file. > Critical: This contains the Access Key ID
and Secret Access Key. If lost, you must delete and recreate them.
2. Standalone System Configuration
Step 5: Install the AWS CLI Tool from google on your computer
Download
https://awscli.amazonaws.com/AWSCLIV2.msi
Step 6: Open your Command Prompt (CMD) or Terminal.
Step 7: Type aws configure and press Enter.
Step 8: Provide the following from your .csv:
Access Key ID
Secret Access Key
Default region: (e.g., ap-south-1)
Default output: json
Run aws ec2 describe-nstances.
Result: You will get an (AccessDenied) error.
This confirms that the CLI is respecting the same IAM policy as the GUI.
3. Verification via Commands
Step 9: Run aws s3 ls. This should list your buckets
Step 10: Run aws s3 mb s3://your-unique-bucket-name. (Success)
Check in console you see the bucket created from CLI
Scenario 1: Security Risk
Q: You logged into AWS using the root user for daily work. What’s wrong here?
✅ Scenario 2: Account Compromise
Q: Your AWS bill suddenly increases and you suspect root user compromise. What steps will you take?
✅ Scenario 3: Root Credentials Lost
Q: What if you forgot root user password?
✅ Scenario 4: Root Access Keys
Q: Why should you avoid creating access keys for root user?
✅ Scenario 5: New Developer Joining
Q: A new developer joins your team. How do you give access?
✅ Scenario 6: Least Privilege
Q: A user needs only S3 read access. What will you do?
✅ Scenario 7: Temporary Access
Q: A contractor needs access for 2 weeks.
✅ Scenario 8: Access Denied Error
Q: User gets “Access Denied” while accessing EC2. Why?
✅ Scenario 9: Multiple Users Same Permissions
Q: 50 users need same access. What is best practice?
✅ Scenario 10: Configure CLI
Q: You installed AWS CLI. How do you configure it?
✅ Scenario 11: Create IAM User via CLI
Q: How to create IAM user using CLI?
✅ Scenario 12: Attach Policy via CLI
Q: Give S3 read access to user using CLI
✅ Scenario 13: Create Access Keys via CLI
Q: How to generate access keys for IAM user?
✅ Scenario 14: List IAM Users
Q: How to check all users using CLI?
✅ Scenario 15: Delete IAM User via CLI
Q: How to safely delete a user?
1Q: CLI command fails with AccessDenied. What to check?
Week-13 IAM Roles
Procedure: Attaching a Role to an EC2 Instance
Create the Role: Go to IAM > Roles > Create role
Select Trusted Entity: Choose AWS Service.
Under the "Service or use case" dropdown, select EC2. (This tells AWS: "I trust the EC2 service to use this role").
Add Permissions: Search for and check AmazonS3FullAccess.
Name & Review: Name it (e.g., EC2-S3-ReadOnly-Role) and click Create role.
Name & Review: Name it (e.g., EC2-S3-ReadOnly-Role) and click Create role.
Role has been created
Create the ec2 instance and and connect to it and check for aws ec2 describe-instances
Attach to Instance:
Go to the EC2 Dashboard. Select your running instance.
Click Actions > Security > Modify IAM role.
.
Select the role you just created and click Update IAM role
Verify via CLI:
SSH/Connect into your EC2 instance. Type aws s3 ls.
The Result: The command works immediately.
We can here role has only s3 full access only here-- aws ec2 describe-instances –
unauthorized
You did not have to provide an Access Key or Secret Key. AWS automatically provided
Temporary Security Credentials to the instance.
Scenario based questions:
1. Scenario: New Developer Access
You hired a new developer who needs access to EC2 and S3.
Question: How will you provide access?
2. Scenario: Temporary Access Needed
A user needs access only for 2 days. How to do this?
3. Scenario: Access Key Leak
A developer accidentally exposed access keys on GitHub.How to resolve this?
4. Scenario: CLI Access Required
User needs programmatic access. How to do this?
5. Scenario: 50 Employees Same Permissions
50 employees need same S3 access. How to do this?
6. Scenario: Change Permissions for Multiple Users
You need to revoke access from 20 users. How to do this?
7. Scenario: Different Departments
HR, Dev, Admin need different access. How to do this?
8. Scenario: EC2 Access to S3
An EC2 instance needs access to S3 without credentials.How to do this?
9. Scenario: Cross-Account Access
Account A wants to access resources in Account B. How to do this?
10. Scenario: Lambda Access to DynamoDB
Lambda needs to read/write DynamoDB. How to give this?
11. Scenario: Temporary Elevated Access
Admin access needed temporarily. How to do this?
12. Scenario: Restrict S3 Access to Specific Bucket
User should only access one bucket. How to do this?
13. Scenario: Deny Delete Actions
Users should not delete resources. Why this happens?
14. Scenario: Time-Based Access
User should access only during office hours. How to do this?
15. Scenario: IP-Based Access
Allow access only from office network. How to do?
16. Scenario: Secure Best Practice
How do you manage permissions efficiently?
17. Scenario: Root User Usage
When should root user be used?
18. Scenario: Multiple Services Access
User needs EC2 + S3 + DynamoDB. How to do this?
19. Scenario: Audit Permissions
How to track user activity?
20. Scenario: Over-Permission Issue
User has too much permission. How to solve this?
